---
layout: page
title: Senior Bionformatics Engineer / Chief Data Architect, CIDC
permalink: /senior-bioinformatics-engineer/
---

# Overview

The Knowledge Systems Group at Dana-Farber Cancer Institute seeks a Senior Bioinformatics Engineer / Chief Data Architect to help build new open-source software and data mining platforms for precision cancer medicine.  

The Senior Bioinformatics Engineer / Chief Data Architect is an exceptional candidate who has both bioinformatics experience and extensive software engineering experience.  We operate at the crossroads of cancer genomics and software, and are looking for that rare individual who has experience and passion for both.  

Our group focuses on mining of cancer genomic data sets, sharing data across cancer centers and cancer networks, and the clinical application of next-generation sequencing.  We were also recently awarded a five year grant to build a new NCI Cancer Immunologic Data Commons (CIDC), and this role will serve as the Chief Data Architect of the CIDC. Specific technical and scientific challenges for this position include large-scale cloud computing, software architecture and design, data mining, data visualization, developing bioinformatics workflows, and immuno-genomics.

# Responsibilities

* Design and develop software, databases and interfaces for analyzing and manipulating genomic data. 
* Design and develop cloud-based bioinformatic workflows, e.g. for whole exome sequencing and RNASeq data.
* Design and develop Application Programming Interfaces (APIs), microservices, and asynchronous queuing systems.
* Orchestrate cloud-based services via modern devops frameworks.
* Develop new Python software modules, developed via best practices, including unit testing, automated build processes and code reviews.

# Required skills

* Bachelor's degree, Master's Degree or Ph.D. in Computer Science, Bioinformatics, Computational Biology or a related field.  
* 6+ years of software engineering experience, preferably in the bioinformatics or cancer genomics space.  
* Expert knowledge of Python.  
* Expert knowledge of cloud computing and cloud-based devops.
* Strong interest in contributing to biological research with clinical applications. 
* Experience in modern software development technologies, including distributed versioning systems, continuous integration, and Agile programming practices. 

The candidate must demonstrate outstanding personal initiative and the ability to work effectively as part of a team. Ability to meet deadlines and efficiently multitask is a must.

# Desirable skills

Any of the following would be significant plusses:  Experienced knowledge of Pandas and scikit-learn;  NoSQL database experience, especially MongoDB.  Handling of cancer genomics data sets, especially those generated by The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) project.  User interaction design and data visualization.

# How to Apply

Email a short description of your interest with your resume / CV directly to:  Ethan Cerami:  cerami AT jimmy.harvard.edu.  Please also include a link to your recent code, e.g. hosted on github.

# About Dana-Farber

Located in Boston, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute brings together world renowned clinicians, innovative researchers and dedicated professionals, allies in the common mission of conquering cancer, HIV/AIDS and related diseases. Combining extremely talented people with the best technologies in a genuinely positive environment, we provide compassionate and comprehensive care to patients of all ages; we conduct research that advances treatment; we educate tomorrow's physician/researchers; we reach out to underserved members of our community; and we work with amazing partners, including other Harvard Medical School-affiliated hospitals.

# Equal Employment Opportunity

Dana-Farber Cancer Institute is an equal opportunity employer and affirms the right of every qualified applicant to receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, gender identity or expression, national origin, sexual orientation, genetic information, disability, age, ancestry, military service, protected veteran status, or other groups as protected by law.

